---
title: Technology by Design's QE Advisory Forum 
description: Read about our QE Advisory Forum (QAF)
author: default
pubDate: 2024-11-18T00:00:00.000Z
coverSVG: ../../assets/tech-by-design/pri-logo_Full-Color.svg
socialImage: ../../assets/tech-by-design/pri-logo_Full-Color.png
categories:
  - policy
tags:
  - reference
---

## QE Advisory Forum (QAF) Purpose

This Planning Document was created to describe how Tech by Design will
manage input to the design of the shared infrastructure solution,
Fusion. This process will also inform how input is gathered throughout
the subsequent implementation, as lessons learned will be documented and
reflected through real-time improvements to the process.

The goal of the QAF approach is to ensure best practices developed by
the Qualified Entities (QEs) are incorporated into the future-state
Shared Infrastructure platform. QEs have built and optimized their
systems over the last 10+ years, and have significant lessons learned
that will add substantial value to Fusion.

## How it Works

The QE Advisory Forum is in place to support decision making during the
discovery and subsequent implementation of the Shared Infrastructure.
The diagram below depicts a summary of the process:

**QAF Process**


## Use Case Definition

During the discovery period, Discovery Sessions will be the primary
origination point of Use Case Creation. Use Cases are written documents
(Word/PDF) that contain key scoping information about each major
function and capability of Fusion. As a result of the discovery
sessions, technology vendors and Tech by design will document the
envisioned functionality to be implemented including a high-level
summary of capabilities, out of scope functionality, and implementation
approach into each Use Case. A list of sample use cases is provided
below:

### Sample Use Cases
|||||
|-----------------|-----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|
| Analytics       | Terminology           | Consent              | MPI                  |
| Auditing        | Outbound Integrations | Direct Messaging     | SMPI                 |
| Clinical Viewer | User Roles            | Management Reporting | Alerts/Notifications |

## QE Feedback

Tech by Design will ensure that implementing QEs have access to all
documentation related to the planning, design, and intended technical
approach to for the Fusion implementation. In most cases, QE input
should be provided proactively in regard to information available in
established locations and tools. Although, within the discovery there
will be two primary triggers where QEs will be especially requested to
provide input.

- **Use Case Draft Review:** In the case that Tech by Design has what it
  feels to be a complete Use Case, QEs will be notified that a draft is
  available for review. Feedback will be aggregated using a dedicated
  GitHub "Discussions" section. *Use Case documents will be linked and
  available to reviewers, although, QE team members are requested to add
  any comments/feedback in the GitHub discussion, providing reference to
  specific content sections of the Use Case Document through utilizing
  the corresponding section number(s) in question*. The GitHub
  discussions section for Use Cases can be found here (Insert Link). QEs
  will have two (2) weeks to provide written feedback to the Use Case
  shared. If no feedback is received, the Use Case will be considered
  final. Feedback may be received after this date, but it is not
  guaranteed that it will be considered. This feedback will be
  considered depending on its criticality as well as the status of
  formal/contractual approvals.
- **Ongoing Implementation Planning Meetings:** Bi-weekly (2x weekly),
  Tech by Design and implementing QEs will meet to discuss ongoing
  outputs of discovery sessions, as well as input received to drafted
  Use Cases. Tech by Design will also bring forward unanswered
  questions, as well as information requests, necessary to inform
  decisions universally across the Fusion implementation effort.

## Who is Involved?

**Tech by Design-** Members of the Tech by Design team will serve as the
primary drivers of all meetings and work products related to the Fusion
implementation effort. They will support the QE Advisory Forum process
as described in this document, and support efforts outside its reach to
ensure the success of the program.

**Implementation Vendor-** These teams will participate in discovery,
design, and implementation related activities as needed, and as directed
by Tech by Design. Additionally, they will attend Ongoing Implementation
Planning Meetings as needed to engage and receive feedback from
implementing QEs.

**Implementation Planning Team-** Chosen team members across all
implementing QEs come together to represent the Implementation Planning
Team. These team members will be engaged as the primary contacts for
feedback requests, and for collaboration when additional QE specific
information is needed. Where provided, Tech by Design will coordinate
with designated project management team members from each QE in these
scenarios as well.

**QE SMEs-** QEs have invaluable talent and knowledge assets within
their teams. To reach these individuals, Implementation Planning Team
members will engage QE SMEs as needed to provide feedback to documented
Use Cases as well as provide input during Ongoing Implementation
Planning Meetings. As much as possible, QE SME meeting attendance will
be limited to one (1) person per QE (in addition to the Implementation
Planning Team). Depending on topic/specialty area discussed, it is
acceptable that the additionally invited QE team member changes from
meeting to meeting. The limited attendance approach is intended to
ensure right sized team participation for productive meeting
facilitation, decision making, and support equitable QE representation.

## Other Planning Assets, and Future Considerations

In addition to documentation regarding Use Cases, other information will
be transparently available to implementing QE teams. Two primary
examples of planned documentation are below:

- **Requirements:** As an extension of the requirements gathered during
  the evaluation and selection phases of the Fusion implementation,
  requirements will be managed throughout deployment and in perpetuity.
  These requirements will be mapped to Use Cases for traceability in
  implementation and for reuse as necessary.
- **Decisions:** Key conclusions will be reached throughout the
  implementation based on discovery session outcomes, QE input, and
  other factors. These decisions will be recorded within a decision
  register. QEs will have the opportunity to comment on decisions for
  additional consideration.

The pattern for feedback and reaching conclusions throughout planning,
implementation, and production use of the Fusion system will follow this
established process, unless lessons learned and process improvements
inform otherwise. Enhancement requests are additional planning assets to
be considered in future plans and process updates.

## QAF Future State

Tech by Design believes there is a long-term role for the QE Advisory
Forum framework. We have attempted, in this first pass, to limit
definitions to only those elements we believe are critical to the
success of the shared infrastructure deployment. Through this first
project, we expect to learn and refine the QAF Framework. Ultimately, we
intend for Tech by Design to only own two parts of the QAF Framework: 1)
the definition and mechanisms for how Tech by Design will receive and
respond to requests, feedback, and insights from the QAFs, and 2) an
initial charter describing rules for the definition, creation and
membership of the QAFs.

Tech by Design looks to these groups to become the filter and refinement
process for feedback and recommendations from the QE community at large
but believes it can serve a far greater role to broader QE community.
While the current QAF refers to the Implementation Planning Team and the
various SMEs brought in based on Use Case definition, the anticipated
future state will leverage various advisory committees and groups formed
to support ongoing system feedback as the QAFs. The following are a few
examples of how Tech by Design has imagined the QAF framework being
used.

### Subject Matter Expertise

- "Evaluation & Feedback" - As new tools, processes, best practices are
  identified and/formulated the QAFs can be called upon to provide
  expert feedback, risk identification, and valuable insights into the
  expected efficacy/impact.
- "Solutioning Support" - When multiple tenable solutions may be
  available, or a solution is not readily apparent then the expertise
  within a QAF can be called upon to provide support in the development
  of solutions, the reframing of the problem, and the evaluation of the
  impact/feasibility of solution options.

### Shared Infrastructure Roadmap

- "Feature Request Filtering" - Not every idea is a good idea. Ensuring
  that feature requests are well vetted and worthwhile amongst the QE
  community is critical to preventing a "bloated" backlog of meagerly
  beneficial features.
- "Feature Request Refinements" - Even good ideas can be made better. We
  expect that the QAFs will have a honing effect on feature requests to
  ensure good ideas become the best possible idea the group has to
  offer.
- "Feature Recommendations" - The QAFs will formalize and submit
  requests to Tech by Design through Tech by Design's future product
  development process.

### Support Network

- "Community Callout" - QE's looking for support will be able to
  leverage the collective QE Advisory Forum community to ask questions,
  present problems, seek solutions from other users utilizing the same
  tools.
- "Phone a Friend" - QE's will now have a directory of experts to engage
  when they're "stuck." This network exists informally today but
  formalizing it around shared infrastructure will remove the much of
  the 'hunting and pecking' for an expert that understands the specific
  problem at hand.

The above are not meant to be an expansive list of how the QAFs could be
utilized. Their effectiveness will ultimately be determined by the level
of engagement that QE's find beneficial. Meeting frequency, membership,
discussion topics, will largely be at the discretion of the Centers of
Excellence and their QE representatives.
